
Project Submission Requirements
There are 3 deliverables for your final project submission. 

    Project Report.
    Please use the final report template under Templates in the Quick Links above to write your final report.
    Product (development).
    Project Demo (poster).




 
Marking criteria
for your final project submission as extracted from the module handbook
 
>89% 	Meets all criteria. Shows a significant amount of critical analysis and exhibits an excellent understanding of the relevant issues. Product meets requirements..
80-89% 	Meets all the criteria. Demonstrates clear awareness and exposition of the relevant issues with a very high standard of critical analysis. Product meets requirements.
70-79% 	Meets almost all of the criteria. Demonstrates clear awareness of relevant issues with a high standard of critical analysis. Appropriate use of analysis and design frameworks. Product meets all requirements.
60-69% 	Meets most of the criteria. Demonstrates clear awareness of relevant issues with a very good standard of critical analysis. Very good analysis and design using appropriate frameworks, but may include some errors. Product meets almost all of the requirements.
50-59% 	Some of the criteria present, but mainly factual and descriptive, with some grasp of analysis. The analysis and design use appropriate frameworks but may have some errors. Product meets most of the requirements.
40-49% 	The essential criteria present and establish a few relevant points, but superficial or confused exposition of issues with little grasp of analysis. An attempt has been made at analysis using appropriate frameworks, but there are many errors. Product meets the essential functional requirements.
<40% 	Little or no evidence of given criteria and no grasp of analysis. Does not demonstrate self-direction, originality in problem solving or a critical self-evaluation of the project process. Product meets very few of the product requirements.

Comments on the Standard of Presentation

The final report should have a length of 10,000 - 12,000 words. The report must also demonstrate an appropriate command of the rules of report layout, spelling, punctuation, grammar, syntax with due regard to the use of figures, diagrams and references. Where a candidate fails to satisfy assessors with respect to these rules the grade awarded should reflect this. Note: All technical documentation should be provided as Appendices and can be excluded from the word count.

Understanding of the Problem Domain

This section is about assessing the student’s ability to identify and investigate a suitable problem, and follow an appropriate project methodology to solve the problem.

    Identified an area to research or investigate and a problem to be solved
    Demonstrated understanding of the problem domain
    Shown how project objectives were formed and project planning took place
    Discussed the research or investigation within the context of the project
    Critical evaluation (of the appropriateness) of the current thinking on the research area
    Compared similar products and systems
    Selected suitable criteria for the development of the product and ideas
    Chosen appropriate tools for modelling and development
    Production of requirements specification/client brief of suitable complexity
    Identified any legal, social, ethical and professional issues that are relevant to the project

Development of Product and Ideas

This section is about assessing the level of development and the student’s competency within the context of the chosen topic area.

    Use of suitable data collection techniques
    Use of suitable analysis tools to evaluate data
    Demonstrated complexity in the design and implementation of the product
    Discussed the development process
    Shown that a number of alternative approaches have been considered
    Explained the reasons for selecting a particular solution
    Demonstrated changes in the project plan and the stages of development progress (incremental development verified during supervision/progress meetings and shared repositories (GitHub))
    Resolution of relevant legal, social, ethical or professional issues

Product Build and Evaluation

This section is about assessing the student’s ability to present their completed work and discuss issues of quality, usability, etc.

    Demonstrated technical ability in building the product
    Demonstrated the full scope of product developed
    Clear plan of how the hypothesis might be tested
    In-depth investigation of the context/literature/other relevant products
    A reasoned thread going throughout the project
    Shown that the product has been tested and evaluated appropriately
    Discussed the quality of the product in relation to original objectives and criteria
    Demonstrated the usability and appropriateness of the product for the problem domain
    Identified where and how improvement can be made

Conclusions and Critical Review

This section is about assessing the student’s ability to be critical of their own work and show reflective thinking.

    Demonstrated critical thinking in writing up the project
    Discussed lessons learnt whilst completing the project
    Identified any problems encountered and discussed how they were tackled
    Identified mistakes made and lessons learnt
    Reflected on how the project plan changed during the development
    Made suggestions as to how the work can be improved
    Identified how the project might be taken further or expanded
